# Data Analytics

## Data Ontology
Data ontology is a way of linking data in various formats based on various concepts.

```mermaid
mindmap
  root((City))
  ::icon(fa fa-city)  
    Properties{{Properites}}
      Demographics
        Population DB (Population DB)
      Weather
       Weather DB (Weather DB)
      Geographical location
        Geo data (Geodata)
      Districts
        Google Maps (Google Maps)
    Actions {{Actions))
      Visit
        Flight Data (Flight Data)
      Book Accommodation
        Hotel DB (Hotel DB)
        AirBnB DB (AirBnB DB)
      Rent Transportation
        Expedia DB (Expedia DB)
```

For example, if you search for “London,” the search engine knows that it is a **city** and what a city is.

The search engine will then retrieve data **points related to cities**, like demographics, districts, and so on.
It will then show the **travel options** that bring you to this city because your **relationship** to London might be **wanting to visit**.

So here we link the city object to its properties and possible actions.

A City object can have the following properties:
* demographics
* districts
* elevation
* weather

The city object can have the following actions:
* visit
* book hotel
* rent a car

## Master Data and Reference Data

### Reference data
Reference data is a subset of master data.

Used for categorizing master data. Can also relate to information outside your business.

Examples of reference data:
* customer segments
* business processes
* countries
* zip codes

### Master Data
Data generated by your business that is being analyzed.
Examples of master data:
* Customer
  * customer profiles
  * where they shop
  * how they buy
  * what they buy
* Financial
  * asset management policies
  * accounting groups
  * financial regulations
* Governance
* Location 
* Employee
* Product

## Data Preparation Tools
* Databricks
* Denodo
* Tableau
* Alteryx
* PowerBI

## Row and Column Level Security
Row-Level Security (RLS) and Column-Level Security (CLS) impose data access restrictions.
* CLS allows for specific users to access only certain **columns** of a table
* RLS restricts users from accessing only data **rows** pertinent to their role
